KINSHASA, Democratic Republic of Congo, September 30, 2020/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            While several judgments of the French justice system have dismissed all of Moïse Katumbi's claims, he continues to try to seize assets that he sold several years ago, citing local court decisions that have never been handed down. The intervention of armed forces in the Katanga region on behalf of Moïse Katumbi poses a threat to the rule of law in the country.




                                NB Mining Africa is the victim of repeated harassment and intimidation, in total violation of the principles of law, with judgments that are not even publicized
                            

On Friday morning, 25 September 2020, at 7:30 am, several dozens of armed police officers entered by force into the premises of the company NB Mining Africa (http://NB-MiningAfrica.com) in Lubumbashi (Katanga region, DRC), alongside members of the Public Prosecutor's Office, to expel the NB Mining Africa teams.

The alleged legal basis for this action is unfounded and fallacious. NB Mining Africa is the victim of repeated harassment and intimidation, in total violation of the principles of law, with judgments that are not even publicized: the company has not been summoned before any court to assert its rights and the company's representatives were never kept informed. Everything is happening in complete illegality, in violation of the rights of the defence and through an undisguised manipulation of the judicial system.

It would appear that armed forces are now heading towards Ruashi Mining to seize the company's machinery and equipment.

Pascal Beveraggi, president of NB Mining Africa, says: "From someone who has run for the highest position in the country, it is unworthy to use force in this way, using the judicial authorities of a region he once governed. No elementary principle of law has been respected. French justice has ruled on what was only a matter for French justice: Moïse Katumbi sold his company, wanting to reappropriate it is pure and simple theft.”