DUBAI, United Arab Emirates, September 30, 2020/APO Group/ --
                                                        
                            To support and re-connect global trade & promote new investment opportunities, Shanxi province is focusing on the lucrative markets & enterprises of the Middle East and Africa to restart the business and its global supply chain. Shanxi Brands Online Tour on the Silk Road is held virtually instead of the traditional offline exhibition platform and started successfully on 28th Sep 2020.



Following the Belt and Road Initiative, adhering to the principles of "discussion, contribution & share together", CCPIT Shanxi Province has implemented an open-door policy through the international trade platform for the prominent Shanxi Province and its companies. 

Since the inaugural event held in 2015, it has been hosted in more than 20 countries including Russia, Hungary, Italy, Germany and Austria. This international collaboration has helped many Shanxi foreign trade companies develop their businesses, which has resulted with the export volume of foreign trade increasing year by year.

The ‘Shanxi Brand Online Tour on the Silk Road’ already is the most important trade channel of Shanxi export product and services. Many foreign trade companies could directly engage and develop new partnerships with Highly Qualified and Industry Leading Chinese suppliers from this exhibition.

No matter what you want to import from China or seek investment opportunities, go to GTW: GlobaltTadeWeek.com/Shanxi and meet your future partners.
                                The ‘Shanxi Brand Online Tour on the Silk Road’ already is the most important trade channel of Shanxi export product and services
                            

It is very easy for visitors and exhibitors to use GTW – Virtual Exhibition Platform. Visitors can see all the various products from China and make 1-2-1 video meeting appointment with exhibitors directly without any charges. Just type your name and email address. Then you could meet 1000’s of high quality Chinse suppliers and manufacturers face to face in a secure B2b Virtual Platform.

Currently there are 120 companies from Shanxi Province showcasing their products in GTW – Virtual Exhibition Platform, as they are unable to attend international physical exhibitions.

Shanxi province is world renowned for their key industries including: Household products, Flange & Pipe fittings, Food, Construction, Machinery, Chemical industry and Environmental protection

These exhibitors are now online and waiting to connect and support you in your business, register today and meet industry leading companies from SHANXI, from 28th Sep to 15th Oct.

Visit globaltradeweek.com/Shanxi open the web page, turn on the microphone and camera and meet the Shanxi Exhibitors ONLINE.

We welcome all international visitors to visit GTW to source new suppliers and find more possibility from yourselves!

For more information on the success of GlobalTradeWeek click on the video links below:
bit.ly/2SfUJWs
bit.ly/30BVRbV