PRETORIA, South Africa, April 21, 2020/APO Group/ --
                                                        
                            As at today, the total number of confirmed COVID-19 cases in South Africa is 3 465.





The total number of tests conducted to date is 126 937, of which 5427 were done in the last 24 hours.



The provincial breakdown is as follows:




	
		
			
			GAUTENG
			
			
			1199
			
		
		
			
			WESTERN CAPE
			
			
			1010
			
		
		
			
			KWAZULU — NATAL
			
			
			671
			
		
		
			
			EASTERN CAPE
			
			
			345
			
		
		
			
			FREE STATE
			
			
			106
			
		
		
			
			LIMPOPO
			
			
			27
			
		
		
			
			NORTH WEST
			
			
			24
			
		
		
			
			MPUMALANGA
			
			
			24
			
		
		
			
			NORTHERN CAPE
			
			
			16
			
		
		
			
			UNALLOCATED
			
			
			43
			
		
	




EASTERN CAPE VISIT



Today we visited the Eastern Cape where we have observed a rapid rise in the number of confirmed cases and this raised a concern. The biggest risk of spread that has been identified is the cultural practices occurring at funerals. We engaged with the provincial executive led by Premier Oscar Mabuyane together with the Health MEC Sindiswa Gomba.



We immediately took a decision to urgently deploy more medical experts including senior epidemiologists, analysts and field consultants to reinforce the provincial team, led by Dr Kerrigan McCarthy from the NICD. We are also pleased that the World Health Organisation has also assisted us by deploying more clinicians and experts.



We have also deployed senior officials from the National Department of Health to do a proper audit of the available personal protective equipment and other requirements. This is to ensure the safety and adequate protection of our health workers who are at the forefront. We reiterate that no health worker should be exposed to the risk of infection. They must all be adequately trained on the infection prevention and control (IPC) and be protected at all times.



Dr Zwelini Mkhize
Minister of Health