PORT LOUIS, Mauritius, February 5, 2020/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            This edition of the IOIG marked the comeback of Rugby in this Island game and the first for Rugby 7, an Olympic discipline.



Mauritian players won the Bronze medal through high-level preparation and breathtaking organization.

Training camps in one of the best performance centers in the World in Stellenbosh supervised by the Blitzboks at the Rodrigues training camp in order to federate all Mauritians as the Games approach.

The preparation of the Mauritians was of high level in order to show the standards that the Sevens demand and will remain an important marker for the players having lived this experience.

On the organization side, an international class tournament according to the members of World Rugby and Rugby Africa. Quality facilities, 5-star accommodation and a large crowd on the 2 days of tournaments. The biggest influx of Sevens recorded in Mauritius.

On the ground, the Mauritians made fans vibrate by playing quality rugby, they pass close to a historic qualification in the final but win a well deserved Bronze medal.

An academy which goes up considerably

The Mauritian Academy has performed this year on the international scene. We note above all that young Mauritians are progressing, they are bridging the gap between them and other nations.

The U18 won the Bronze medal in the AROI tournament involving Madagascar, Reunion and Mayotte as well as a silver medal in the Visionsport tournament between South African and Mauritian teams.

The U16s also won the Bronze medal on the AROI with clear progress since 2017.

The U14 win the silver medal against the South Africans, the level between the teams is tightening every year.

The U12s participated for the 2nd time in the prestigious Monaco Tournament, they won the Shield against the international teams.
                                The Mauritius Federation is betting on the future with its Mauritius2024 Olympic program and it looks very exciting in view of the quality of the game deployed
                            

Women's rugby looking for experience

The National Women's Team participated for the second time in its history in the Women's African Cup, counting as an Olympic qualification for the Tokyo Olympics. The Mauritius team lost three times on the first day against Madagascar (3rd), Tunisia (4th) and Morocco. On the second day, Mauritians competed and went from near a major feat, to achieve their first victory in the Africa Cup. They lose in Extra-Time against Botswana (22-17) On the players side, the young Chloe Bax at only 18 years old was very prominent on the competition, she registered 3 very spectacular tests by crossing the whole ground. With the integration of players of this caliber, the future of Mauritian rugby looks bright. The girls also had their second participation in the Dubai7s tournament with the Barbarians in order to gain maximum international experience.

New Generation for rugby XV

After being a finalist in the Bronze Cup in 2018 against Ghana, the Mauritius team rose to a division in the Rugby Africa Cup, counting for the qualification RWC2023, by facing Senegal in Dakar.

The Armada of Senegalese professional players playing in the French championship (22 players) have given young Mauritians no chances.

The difference between the amateur and professional world is obvious.

After the Island Games, a new generation of players is building the rugby union of tomorrow. 16 players had their first selections with the quadricolor including 3 Rodriguans players and 3 overseas players.

The young Mauritian guard at 7 impresses on the Africa Men Sevens Series

The national team was the youngest of the 14 teams entered for the second time in a row. 19.1 average age!

Beyond the ranking, the young players impressed the many observers present at the Bosman Stadium in Johannesburg. A flamboyant game in attack, a lot of initiatives in the midfield and above all little technical waste.

The Mauritians approached their tournament strategically, concentrating their strength on the second table. The first game was a dry match entering the Top8 and inaccessible against one of the favorites to the title Uganda, they logically bow 57-00.

In the following matches, Maurice takes the upper hand over their opponents in terms of play,

Facing Morocco, the team produced a quality match losing at the end 24-19 after leading 19-5 on the match.

On match 3, the power of Ghana undermines the Mauritian defense 43-12. The last match against Botswana is the most successful with a net victory of 31-0 spectacular in terms of play.

The Mauritius Federation is betting on the future with its Mauritius2024 Olympic program and it looks very exciting in view of the quality of the game deployed.