DUBAI, United Arab Emirates, February 17, 2020/APO Group/ --
                                                        
                            Canon (Canon-CNA.com) announces the launch of the Canon SELPHY SQUARE QX10, the latest addition to its popular SELPHY range of compact photo printers and the Canon XS-20L square photo paper pack. Small enough to fit into a handbag or backpack, this portable and hand-held photo printer is the perfect accessory for arts & crafts enthusiasts or passionate Instagrammers, who enjoy printing rich, vibrant photos direct from a smartphone or tablet, by pairing with Canon’s free to download SELPHY Photo Layout app (iOS (https://apple.co/2uFRtvH)/Android (http://bit.ly/2vDNxf2)).



With its built-in battery and Wi-Fi connectivity, printing high quality square 68x68mm (2.7x2.7in) prints from the Canon SELPHY SQUARE QX10 could not be easier. Simple to personalise and complete with a peel-and-stick back, the Canon XS-20L square format photo paper (sold separately) features a classic look with a bordered edge for adding hand-written captions, providing users a retro and nostalgic feel. Due to the protective film coating, prints are smudge-free, water, dirt and tear resistant.



Without the need for ink cartridges or a printer tray, the SELPHY SQUARE QX10 prints dry and high-quality photos in just 43 seconds and features dye sublimation technology that maintains a print’s high-quality finish and resists the effects of fading for up to 100 years.



Available in four distinct colours (Black, White, Pink and Green), users can select the colour that best suits their style. Scanning the Canon SELPHY SQUARE QX10’s QR code from a smart device will connect the printer to the SELPHY Photo Layout app, from which users can access their smartphone photo library and add creative touches. With stamps, filters, borders and bespoke layouts, the app helps personalise prints to make them truly unique.



The Canon XS-20L label set can be used to decorate everyday items such as scrapbooks, photo journals, phone cases or home decorations for preserving special moments, to adding visual references to shoe boxes or adorning the fridge with treasured memories.



With no leads, no cables and no fuss, the Canon SELPHY SQUARE QX10 is designed to fit into any lifestyle with ease. With speedy USB charging, this battery-powered compact photo printer is the fun, wireless way to create beautifully crafted prints at a moment’s notice and enjoyed for years to come.



The Canon SELPHY SQUARE QX10 will be available at €149 and packs of 20 Canon XS-20L square format photo paper at €16 from Canon’s online store and official Canon retailers from March 2020.



For more information on the Canon SELPHY SQUARE QX10 and the Canon XS-20L label set, please visit:




                                With its built-in battery and Wi-Fi connectivity, printing high quality square 68x68mm (2.7x2.7in) prints from the Canon SELPHY SQUARE QX10 could not be easier
                            





Canon SELPHY SQUARE QX10 - Key Features:


	
	Rich, vibrant and archival quality images that will last for up to 100 years
	
	
	Portable and battery powered, it’s small enough to fit inside a handbag or backpack
	
	
	With Wi-Fi connectivity to a smartphone, use the Canon SELPHY SQUARE QX10 anywhere
	
	
	Connect to the SELPHY Photo Layout app 2.0 to enjoy adding creative touches to square prints
	
	
	Canon SELPHY SQUARE QX10 prints up to 256 shades per primary colour, resulting in 16.7 million possible colours

	
	




What’s in the box


	
	Canon SELPHY SQUARE QX10
	
	
	Ink cassette
	
	
	Sample sticker paper
	
	
	User Manual Kit
	
	
	USB Micro B connector to USB Type-A connector
	




The Canon SELPHY SQUARE QX10 requires an iOS/Android device with the SELPHY Photo Layout app 2.0 to use