PORT LOUIS, Mauritius, July 20, 2020/APO Group/ --
                                                        
                            The European Commission is providing €64.7 million in humanitarian aid for countries in the southern Africa region to help support people in need dealing with the coronavirus pandemic, extreme weather conditions - such as persistent drought in the region - and other crises. 



Janez Lenarčič, Commissioner for Crisis Management, said: “The EU is helping to provide life-saving assistance to impoverished households suffering from crop and livestock losses due to drought. The aid package will also strengthen the preparation and response to the coronavirus pandemic for countries in the region. In parallel, the EU is helping communities better prepare for natural hazards and reduce their impact.”  



Funding from this aid package will go for humanitarian projects in Angola (€3 million), Botswana (€1.95 million), Comoros (€500,000), Eswatini (€2.4 million), Lesotho (€4.8 million), Madagascar (€7.3 million), Malawi (€7.1 million), Mauritius (€250,000), Mozambique (€14.6 million), Namibia (€2 million), Zambia (€5 million) and Zimbabwe (€14.2 million). A further €1.6 million is allocated to regional disaster preparedness actions. 



Funding will target:


	
	food assistance to vulnerable households and helping farmers in the affected areas restore their means of subsistence;
	
	
	coronavirus prevention and preparedness actions to support local health systems and facilitate access to health care, protective equipment, sanitation and hygiene;
	
	
	disaster preparedness projects that also cover new needs brought about by the coronavirus pandemic. They include strengthening early warning systems and evacuation plans for communities at risk of natural hazards, and having emergency stocks of personal protective equipment;
	
	
	support for children’s education and providing training to teaching staff.

	
	


In Mauritius, EU humanitarian funding is supporting the national coronavirus preparedness and response plan. The projects will be assisting with access to testing, infection prevention and control measures in public health facilities and risk communication, including to hard-to-reach communities. 



Given the serious deterioration of the security situation in Cabo Delgado in northern Mozambique, €5 million will support vulnerable people in the area.
                                Projects will be assisting with access to testing, infection prevention and control measures in public health facilities, risk communication including to hard-to-reach communities
                            



Background 



The humanitarian aid funding announced today comes on top of the more than €67 million allocated to the region in 2019 following the impact of the two cyclones, drought, and the economic and humanitarian crisis in Zimbabwe.



The southern Africa region has had just one normal rainy season in the last five years, with the last quarter of 2019 being one of the ten driest since 1981 for most areas, causing largescale livestock losses and damaging harvests. In many places, the current growing season is exceptionally hot and dry, while in several other parts of the region, erratic rains risk undermining harvests in 2020. In some countries, this burden comes on top of already-crippling economic woes. 



The coronavirus pandemic is likely to compound already significant humanitarian needs in the region.