WARRI, Nigeria, May 18, 2020/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            Fresh Angle International Newspaper (Freshangleng.com), is a publication of Fresh Angle Nigeria Limited, registered with the Corporate Affairs Commission, CAC of Nigeria.





The publication which began operation January 2010, with monthly hardcopy tabloid and later migrated into a full blooded daily online newspaper, with global reach, is owned by Asare Michael Segun (An Accountant) and Metsese Anthony Ebule, a Mass Communication Graduate -Print Option, with 21 years’ experience in Journalism and Public Relations.



Our company, which is based in Warri, Delta State, Nigeria, is anchored on the principle of generating original local contents, with a view to globalizing same and localizing International and National contents to our local audience, through the concepts of interpretative and developmental journalism.



In light of the aforesaid, we have sent two of our Field Correspondents, Celestine Ukah and Ojevwe Ughweri, to couple of trainings, including Advance Writing and Reporting Skills, AWAREs Programme at Pan Atlantic University, Lagos. The AWAREs training was courtesy of Chevron Nigeria Limited, CNL and efforts are ongoing to boost the capacity of other members of our editorial team, particularly those in Kogi and Bayelsa States.



It may be necessary to note that it was in a bid to improve our service delivery, in line with current realities that we launched our app in 2019. The journey of where we are today, in terms of online journalism, started with a blog, later a word press site, before migrating to our current website.



The steady rise among competitors in the new media, have been widely acknowledged in the form of couple of working relationships and advert patronages from reputable International and National organizations, such as Chevron Nigeria Limited, CNL and the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, NNPC.
                                Over the years, we have grown to become a local news agency of some sort across Nigeria
                            



We must also note that the partnership just agreed with APO Group, came about a year after we declined similar proposal from News Agency of Nigeria, NAN. This is because of our strong policy of occupying the Nigerian news space with mostly exclusive and less syndicated news stories.



Over the years, we have grown to become a local news agency of some sort across Nigeria. Our Company is also very strong in Public Relations Consultancy as well as building of individuals and companies’ brands.



As can be easily observed, Fresh Angle International is the search engine destination for news contents from Warri, other parts of Delta State, aside the mostly detailed reports and analysis from across the globe. As the name implies, Fresh Angle International, reports anything that attracts human interest, from sports to politics and entertainment as well as other socio - cultural issues.



We are determined to separate ourselves from plagiarism, which has unfortunately gained acceptance among many media practitioners of today. It is against this backdrop, that we give credit to original content owners, whenever we choose to publish their contents for the benefit of our teeming readers globally.



Fresh Angle International, is presently situated on the topmost floor of Cross Plaza, by Ekurede Itsekiri Junction, off NPA By - Pass, Warri, Delta State, Nigeria.



We moved to our current office, which is a two - bedroom office apartment December 2018. That was eight years after operating in a one room office at 2 Ada Val Arenyeka Street, off NPA Expressway, Ugbuwangue, Warri in Delta State.



Our target is to grow to a position where we will have Corporate Offices across the length and breadth of Nigeria and beyond.