DUBAI, United Arab Emirates, May 11, 2020/APO Group/ --
                                                        
                            Cigna Corporation (NYSE:CI) (Cigna.com), a global health services company, has appointed Jerome Droesch as Chief Executive Officer for the Middle East and Africa (MEA) region, expanding his remit to include all markets across Africa.



In addition, Jerome has been appointed as Senior Executive Officer (SEO) and Chairman of the Cigna Insurance Management Services (CIMS) Board in the Dubai International Financial Centre (DIFC). He continues to serve as a Board Member of Cigna’s joint venture operations in India and Turkey.



Jerome has successfully led Cigna’s Middle East business, where he has strengthened the company’s position as an industry leader, achieving growth and stability for Cigna across the region. The expansion of his role will further accelerate Cigna’s growth, creating synergies across the Middle East and Africa markets, enabling the company to offer more accessible and convenient solutions to its customers. The move reinforces Cigna’s commitment to the fast-growing insurance industry in the MEA region.
                                Over the next few years, we aim to strengthen our product portfolio and focus on delivering service excellence to people and businesses across the MEA region
                            



Jason Sadler, President, Cigna International Markets said, “Jerome is a seasoned leader with extensive experience driving business growth in the health insurance sector. I am excited to continue working closely with him to further strengthen our presence across the MEA region, through a dedicated consumer-centric approach.”



“Africa has always been a key growth market for Cigna and combining both markets makes sense operationally, since a large number of clients and brokers are unifying their MEA activities,” said Jerome. “Over the next few years, we aim to strengthen our product portfolio and focus on delivering service excellence to people and businesses across the MEA region.”



Jerome’s career spans over 28 years in the insurance industry. Prior to joining Cigna, he served as CEO of AXA Partners and was directly involved in insurance businesses in the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) region.