HARARE, Zimbabwe, May 4, 2020/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            The Ministry would like to report that all the PCR tests done in Harare and Bulawayo on the 2nd of May 2020 were negative for COVID-19.



A total of 920 tests were done as shown in table 1 below, giving a total of 11647 screening and diagnostics tests done to date. Results to follow.

Table 1: Distribution of tests done




	
		
			
			Province
			
			
			Number of tests done
			
		
		
			
			Mash West
			
			
			24
			
		
		
			
			Mat. North
			
			
			7
			
		
		
			
			Bulawayo
			
			
			287*
			
		
		
			
			Masvingo
			
			
			70
			
		
		
			
			Mash. Central
			
			
			8
			
		
		
			
			Mash. East
			
			
			6
			
		
		
			
			Midlands
			
			
			16
			
		
		
			
			Manicaland
			
			
			56
			
		
		
			
			Harare
			
			
			446*
			
		
		
			
			TOTAL
			
			
			920
			
		
	




*Disaggregation of tests done by province was not available at the time of print

Therefore, to date, Zimbabwe has thirty-four confirmed cases, including five recoveries and four deaths.

Table 2: Number of confirmed cases to date




	
		
			
			Province
			
			
			No. of Confirmed Cases
			
		
		
			
			Matabeleland North
			
			
			1
			
		
		
			
			Bulawayo
			
			
			12
			
		
		
			
			Harare
			
			
			13
			
		
		
			
			Mashonaland East
			
			
			5
			
		
		
			
			Mashonaland West
			
			
			3
			
		
		
			
			Total
			
			
			34
			
		
	




The Ministry continues to be on HIGH alert to the COVID-19 pandemic and would like to remind the nation that, the most effective ways to protect yourself and others against COVID-19 are to practise good personal hygiene and exercise social distancing.

As announced by His Excellency, The President Cde. E.D. Mnangagwa the re-opening of industry and commerce during the Lockdown Extension effective 4 May 2020, is premised on the mandatory testing of employers and employees. The Ministry has put in place the following plan to ensure immediate implementation of this policy:

• Designated public health facilities that conduct routine screening and medical examination foe workers will now also conduct COVID- 19 rapid testing.

• To expedite the testing process. companies are encouraged to procure the COVID-19 Rapid test kits for themselves. guided by the Ministry in terms of test kits specifications.

• Employers must arrange with the designated testing facilities (public and private) for their employees to be tested at an agreed time as the facilities or at the workplace.

• Companies should ensure adequate space and conditions for testing (social distancing, infection prevention and control. privacy etc).