ADDIS ABABA, Ethiopia, May 27, 2020/APO Group/ --
                                                        
                            The total laboratory tests conducted within 24 hours are 4,352; of these thirty (30) of them are confirmed positive for COVID-19 and the total confirmed cases as of today are Seven-Hundred-Thirty-One (731). Among the confirmed cases, 22 of them are male and 8 are female and their age ranges from 9 to 60 years. All of the people confirmed for COVID-19 am Ethiopians. Among the cases fifteen (15) of them are identified from Addis Ababa (two have known contact with a confirmed case and thirteen have no known contact with confirmed cases and no travel history), two (2) from Tigray Region (with travel history from abroad and was in mandatory quarantine), eight (8) from Amhara region (with travel history from abroad was in mandatory quarantine), one (1) from Oromia region (with no known contact with confirmed cases and no travel history), three (3) from Harari region (have known contact with a confirmed case) and one (1) long truck driver with travel history from abroad.



The potential sources of exposure of the confirmed cases arc presented below:




	
		
			
			Potential Exposure
			
			
			Number of Cases
			
		
		
			
			Travel history from abroad
			
			
			11
			
		
		
			
			Contact with confirmed cases
			
			
			 5
			
		
		
			
			Cases with no contact with confirmed cases and no travel history
			
			
			14
			
		
		
			
			Total
			
			
			30
			
		
	




Furthermore, fourteen (14) people from Addis Ababa recovered from the disease that makes the total number of recoveries one-hundred-eighty-one (181).

COVID-19 Situational Update as of Today




	
		
			
			Total laboratory test conducted
			
			
			91,616
			
		
		
			
			Laboratory tests conducted within 24 hours
			
			
			4352
			
		
		
			
			Number of confirmed cases within 24 hours
			
			
			30
			
		
		
			
			Total patients of COVID-19 in the treatment centers
			
			
			542
			
		
		
			
			Patients in intensive care
			
			
			1
			
		
		
			
			Newly recovered
			
			
			14
			
		
		
			
			Total recovered
			
			
			181
			
		
		
			
			Total deaths
			
			
			6
			
		
		
			
			Returned to their country
			
			
			2
			
		
		
			
			Total confirmed cases as of today
			
			
			731
			
		
	




The laboratory samples were collected from the high-risk community members, returnees/passengers at mandatory quarantine centers, contacts of the confirmed cases, health facility visitors and suspects at isolation centers.

Considering the increase in transmission of COVID-19, the Ministry of Health and Ethiopian Public Health Institute would like the public to strictly adhere to all precaution measures. We need to be reminded that every single action we take determines the risk of contracting the virus. Therefore, we should:

• Maintain physical distancing.

• Wash our hands with water and soap frequently.

• Stay at home and avoid mass gatherings.

• Cover our mouth and nose with face/cloth mask when going outdoors.