JOHANNESBURG, South Africa, October 12, 2020/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            Africa’s most important energy event returns for its 23rd edition, via a new and engaging online platform. Coming to your screens on 4 – 6 November, Power & Electricity World Africa (bit.ly/36DRL6A) will be a three-day virtual exhibition and conference, bringing together over 8000 African utilities, IPPs, government leaders, large energy users and innovators - all onto one platform.



Our mission is to maintain this forum as the industry meeting place where professionals come to see the latest energy disruptions and tech, learn how to deliver bankable, sustainable, clean generation projects as well as the newest storage, battery and solar solutions that are transforming how we supply energy in Africa.

This year’s event will see 8,000 attendees, 250 speakers, 300 sponsors and exhibitors from across the energy value chain. Join in for 3 packed days of panel debates, roundtable discussions, keynote presentations, tech showcases, unlimited networking and so much more.



“One of the largest energy gatherings in Africa. Such a rich conference program and quality participants” - Adil Diani, Former Advisor to the Minister, Ministry of Energy, Mines, Water and Environment, Morocco

Conference

The conference will focus on global trends and practical innovative energy applications as well as how market players can capitalise on business opportunities across the continent. Our premium content will span 7 channels: Generation, Transmission & Distribution, Finance & Investment, Solar, Storage, Renewables and Women In Energy. Explore the agenda (bit.ly/2SxM2XW)

You can expect keynote presentations delivered by Astria Fataki, Founder and President, Energy Generation; Bako Ambianda, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Labacorp Power Company; Baraka Kasali, Chief Operating Officer, Nuru; Fumani Mthembi, Founder, Pele Green Energy; Philippe Costes, Senior Advisor To Director General, World Nuclear Association; Sandra Ro, Chief Executive Officer, Global Blockchain Business Council; and Simbarashe Mhuriro, Chief Executive Officer, Oxygen Energy Zimbabwe. View full speaker list (bit.ly/3d2hzux)

All will come together in a series of keynote sessions, panels, debates, roundtables and more, showcasing their insight and thought leadership by delivering inspiring content.
                                One of the largest energy gatherings in Africa; such a rich conference program and quality participants
                            

Exhibition

Take your online shopping to the next level - you can source innovative new products and solutions from over 300 leading energy solution providers listed on the platform. You can watch demonstrations, take meetings, and questions left answered! See who’s exhibiting (bit.ly/3iFuljI)

The tech showcases are also not to be missed! We will be streaming short, sharp presentations and interesting case studies designed to help you learn more about the latest energy solutions being implemented. This unparalleled content also includes "how to" sessions packed with practical knowledge for you to utilise immediately.

Register for free (bit.ly/2GMr2tC)

Networking

With a 23-year history of attracting all players in the energy sector, from senior decision makers, vendors and manufacturers, to end users, we are dedicated to creating a meeting place for the entire industry.

Your free virtual pass will give you access to:


	Shop for solutions to all your energy needs
	Network with thousands of attendees
	Get personalised recommendations and schedule 1-to-1 meetings.
	Message attendees directly through the platform and connect with like-minded peers or relevant buyers
	Tailor your personal schedule by bookmarking the sessions you want to attend
	Access to live streaming panel discussions and presentations, and on-demand recordings post-event




Power & Electricity World Africa continues to be the meeting place for buyers, sellers and their partners to do the deals that drive Africa’s energy sector. Secure your free pass now (bit.ly/2GMr2tC) and be part of the future of energy in Africa, all from the comfort and safety of your home or office.

Can’t attend live? Register anyway! (bit.ly/2GMr2tC) All sessions will be available on-demand immediately following their live broadcast.

With so much content to cover and connections to be made, why not invite your team?

We look forward to receiving your registration.