ROME, Italy, October 23, 2020/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            NTT Pro Cycling’s (NTTProCycling.com) Victor Campenaerts took an impressive second place on stage 19 of the Giro d’Italia that finished in Asti, the team’s seventh top-10 finish of the race.



On a day that saw the stage first neutralised and then restarted at 125km to go, due to inclement weather, the entire dynamic was altered with the general classification riders looking to safely navigate themselves home.

Upon the restart in Abbiategrasso, Campenaerts seized the initiative and quickly managed to find himself in a breakaway that would eventually swell to 14-men. The Belgian, realising the strength of the group, then sought to whittle it down further and effecting the decisive split of the day.

Josef Cerny (CCC) took full advantage and with approximately 25km to go went solo; and the excellent time-triallist managed to hold off the chasing group of five riders to take victory.
                                It was very nice that straight away as soon as they shortened the stage, I thought it was a good decision
                            

The impressive Campenaerts managed to pull away from the group, finishing alone in second place and capping off yet another fine day for NTT Pro Cycling at the 103rd edition of the Giro d’Italia.

The saw the team score their seventh top-10 finish of the race including the stage 17 win by Ben O’Connor.

Victor Campenaerts

It was very nice that straight away as soon as they shortened the stage, I thought it was a good decision. Especially with the days that we had before.

When they shortened it I thought of it as a good opportunity to go on the attack because when you go on the attack with other WorldTour riders and it’s only 125km .it’s always hard to catch the break back.

Pretty soon it was clear that we could stay in front and I had super good legs but in Dutch we say “I was riding like a wild bull” and I maybe showed a bit too much in that sense; but second is good and we like to win of course.

I am satisfied with the result and now there’s an exciting two more days to come.