LONDON, United Kingdom, October 12, 2020/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            The African Development Bank (AfDB) and EnergyNet, organisers of the Africa Energy Forum (AEF) (Africa-Energy-Forum.com), have created the ‘African Utility of Future’ competition enabling teams to compete for a USD $5,000 prize.
        
                                    
                    
                        
                                                
                        
                        
                            VIDEO                        

                        
                            aef African Utility of the Future Competition                        
                    
                
                                         
               
                         Share
              
                
                
                
                
                
                
                
                
                
              
            
            
                 Copy Embed
            
        
        
    
    <iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.africa-newsroom.com/press/embed_video/49881/e" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen ></iframe> 
    



The Power, Energy, Climate and Green Growth Complex (PEVP) of AfDB will participate at AEF2020, mainstreaming the concept of: “The African Utility of the Future” - the theme for the 2019 AfDB-APUA CEO Leadership Forum. This is a continuation on the concept of “The Second Wave of Power Sector Reforms” as it relates to the Sustainable Utility Transformation (SUT) agenda of the Bank – a key component that will continue to drive the Bank’s ‘Light Up and Power Africa’ strategic objective.

The competition seeks to inspire team-building and innovative ideas to transform current utilities into Advanced, Futuristic, SMART, Sustainable and Agile African Power Utilities. The overarching principle is to create a platform for current asset-owners to come up with innovative, realistic, practical and implementable ideas for “leap-frogging” existing utilities in the future. The design will be grounded around the five pillars of the Sustainable Utility Transformation (SUT) agenda:


	Improved Sector Governance
	Least Cost Integrated Resource Planning
	Human Capital Development
	Sector Reforms & Financial Sustainability
	Smart Partnerships & performance monitoring




Submission criteria

The competition opened 8th October with a submission deadline of 6th November 2020. Team entries will remain anonymous, and the use of team names are encouraged. As the objective is to solicit realistic and practical ideas relevant to African utilities currently operating, only submissions from teams representing current Distribution asset owners will be allowed. These Distribution asset owners can be public or private sector, and on-, off- or mini-grid based.

Only the winning team will be named, unless (based on the quality of the submissions) the judges feel that the proposals of the 2nd and 3rd place teams should be mentioned.

Finalists will be announced on 11th November, with the winning team announced on 13th November – the closing date of AEF 2020.